Timothy chapter 1 verses 18 through 20 will be our text of Scripture this morning.
The first chapter of this letter ends with a charge.
We see that in verse number 18, this charge, and we find that the charge that is given
would have been understood by Timothy as being an urgent command.
In fact, the language that is used here would often be used within the context of military
conversation and giving some commands and what have you.
And so the language that's used would refer to the command that would be handed down from
a superior officer.
And so Timothy would have understood the usage of this particular word, and we understand
even as we look at these few verses of Scripture that Paul had a special relationship with
Timothy.
We see that noted in this text where the Bible talks about this charge, I commit unto thee
son Timothy.
We find that there was a special relationship between Paul and Timothy.
He often would refer to him as being his son in the faith.
But we find that Paul, having an understanding that his course, his ministry, would soon
come to an end, that he sought to encourage Timothy, and his encouragement here as we
find at the end of verse number 18 is that he might war a good warfare.
I've used that for the text or for the title of our message this morning, War a Good Warfare.
Ask this question, is it even possible?
Well, of course it is if the charge would be given from Paul to Timothy, and we know
that all Scripture is given by inspiration of God.
Is it possible that we could war a good warfare?
The answer is yes, but then we must understand how it is that we can accomplish this.
And I hope this morning that through these three verses of Scripture that we'd have the
opportunity to be encouraged as we too are given this charge to war a good warfare.
Notice the Bible says this in verse 18, this charge I commit unto thee son Timothy, according
to the prophecies which went on before on thee, it says that thou by them mightest war
a good warfare, holding faith and a good conscience, which some having put away concerning faith
have made shipwreck, of whom is Hymenaeus and Alexander, whom I have delivered unto
Satan that they may learn not to blaspheme.
It's interesting even in the beginning of verse number 18 as we begin to look at this
charge that God would give through Paul to Timothy, he reminds him of his calling and
when we spoke about the beginning of this study through 1 Timothy, we said how can we
be equipped to continue?
One of the factors that we mentioned that God gives us to equip us for continuing is
that reminder of the calling that God has placed upon our lives.
The purpose that God has for us, Paul revealed in the opening statements of this letter his
understanding of his call, his purpose, that he was an apostle of Jesus Christ by the commandment
of God.
He says in the second letter, by the will of God, and we made note that God's command
is God's will and God's will is God's command, and we find that Timothy, he too was called
of God and we found that as we studied through the beginning portions of the scripture of
chapter number one, the calling that God placed upon the life of Timothy, and then Paul says
according to the prophecies which went before on thee, that thou by them mightest war a
good warfare.
Paul mentions in the second epistle, 2 Timothy chapter number one, he talks about how he
was called, Timothy was called and ordained for the ministry where he was equipped by
God, and we find here in this text of scripture that God gives us insight, I believe, with
how we, how Timothy could war a good warfare.
Remember, he's left in Ephesus, and in Ephesus we find that there's this introduction of
false teaching, we find that Timothy was left there and he had been given the responsibility
that he would charge some, according to verse number three, that they teach no other doctrine,
and we find that here Paul encourages Timothy to continue on, to not give up in the face
of adversity when things were challenging and things were difficult, that he was called
of God and he had a purpose and God would equip him and he must continue here, he says
war a good warfare.
I think this morning as we consider this thought, I want you to consider with me first of all
if you're taking notes, number one, we must understand the battle.
We must understand the battle.
Paul says very clearly, war a good warfare.
Now think about the usage, we understand that God has given, the Bible tells us of itself
that all scripture is given by inspiration of God, we believe that God gave every word,
and we find that here as we look at this text of scripture that Paul was communicating to
Timothy, the fact that this is battle, this is a war.
We understand this morning that we are engaged in spiritual warfare and it's important that
we understand the battle.
Paul, no doubt in his life and his ministry, he clearly understood the battle.
In just a little while we would read in 2 Timothy 4 and verse number 7 how he says this,
I have fought a good fight.
We find that it was Tozer that said this, that the Christian life is best described
not as a playground but as a battleground, and we find this morning that it is necessary
for every child of God to understand that we are engaged in spiritual warfare.
We find that Paul would say this to Timothy in 2 Timothy chapter number 2 if you hold
your place there in 1 Timothy and look over at what Paul will tell him in this second
epistle, he tells him in chapter number 2 with regard to this thought of understanding
the battle.
Far too many, I believe, do not understand the spiritual battle that we are engaged in
and therefore we cannot war a good warfare because we do not understand that we're engaged
in battle.
And he says in chapter number 2 of 2 Timothy in verse number 3, thou therefore endure hardness
notice as a good soldier of Jesus Christ.
Know man that wareth and tangleth himself with the affairs of this life that he may
please him who hath chosen him to be a soldier.
You know when you trust that Christ is your Savior you became a soldier of the cross.
And we understand that Paul will say to the believers in Philippi that there are those
that are the enemies of the cross.
And there is a spiritual battle, there is a spiritual warfare that is taking place.
Come back to Ephesians 6 if you will, a familiar passage of scripture, but we must be mindful
of the truth that Paul is writing to Timothy and as he's giving this charge to Timothy,
remember Timothy was left at Ephesus.
This is the place where he was left and we find that Paul says to him that I besought
thee to abide still at Ephesus when I went into Macedonia.
And so Paul, we compare scripture with scripture and as we look at the book of Ephesians we
get insight with regard to this truth of the spiritual battle that would be, Timothy would
be engaged in.
In verse number 10 of Ephesians 6 the Bible says this, finally my brethren, now Paul here
is writing to the church at Ephesus.
But he says to these believers, be strong in the Lord and in the power of his might.
Notice verse number 11, put on the whole armor of God that you may be able to stand
against the what?
The wiles of the devil.
That word is interesting in the fact that it means the craftiness, the trickery, the
deceit of the enemy and he says that you might be able to stand or to put on the whole armor
of God.
Obviously the image of a Christian soldier is on full display in Ephesians chapter number
6 and then Paul would say to Timothy that you might war a good warfare.
In verse number 12 notice the Bible says, for we wrestle not against flesh and blood
but against principalities, against powers, against the rulers of the darkness of this
world, against spiritual wickedness in high places.
It is absolutely essential that the child of God understands who the true enemy is.
It's absolutely essential that we, as we're engaged in this warfare, as we understand
the battle that we are engaged in, that we understand who the enemy is, that we are fighting,
that we're engaged in this spiritual warfare and we're fighting not against flesh and blood
but against spiritual wickedness in high places.
He says in 2 Corinthians chapter 10 that the weapons of our warfare are not carnal.
No, they're spiritual.
You notice in verse 13 of Ephesians 6 he says, wherefore, based on the fact that we're engaged
in this spiritual warfare, that we're not wrestling against flesh and blood but against
spiritual wickedness in high places, take unto you the whole armor of God that you may
be able to withstand in the evil day and having done all to stand.
Stand therefore having your loins girt about with truth and having on the breastplate of
righteousness and your feet shod with the preparation of the gospel of peace, above
all taking the shield of faith, wherewith you shall be able to quench all the fiery
darts of the wicked, and take the helmet of salvation and the sword of God.
sword of the Spirit, which is the word of God, praying always with all prayer and supplication
in the Spirit, and watching thereunto with all perseverance and supplication for all
saints."
The church at Ephesus had been given the instruction with regard to the spiritual battle that they
would be engaged in.
In fact, the church leaders at Ephesus, according to Acts chapter number 20, Paul calls for
those church leaders.
He dealt with this several weeks ago, and as he calls for those church leaders from
the church at Ephesus to come and to meet with him before he would head to Jerusalem,
he tells them that he knew that there would be some grievous wolves that would enter in.
They would not spare the flock.
He said not only that, but there'd be some men that would creep up of their own selves,
and so Paul had given warning.
God had used the apostle Paul to warn the leaders of the church at Ephesus to give the
instruction to the believers at the church at Ephesus, and we find now that as he's writing
to Timothy, he says to Timothy, this is the plan that God has for your life.
Timothy, you're to stay there in Ephesus, and you're to charge some that they teach
no other doctrine, and as you're engaged in this ministry that God has placed you in,
remember Paul just finished, as we looked at last week, verses 12-17, this great passage
of praise, God put me in the ministry and all of this truth and worshiping the Lord
because of salvation, and we find here that Paul is going to tell Timothy, listen, it's
spiritual battle, but God's put you here, and you're going to, the challenge, the charge
is to war a good warfare.
Well, in order to do that, I must first understand that it's a battle.
It's a battle.
There's spiritual wickedness.
There are those that are the enemies of the cross.
You say, pastor, we understand.
You don't have to say a whole lot more.
We live in this world, and we understand the spiritual battle that we're engaged in.
Number two, as you look at the text of Scripture, not only what must we understand the battle,
but number two, we must be unwavering in our belief.
We must be unwavering in our belief.
Notice what Paul says in verse number 19.
These two words to begin the verse of Scripture, he says, holding faith.
Now, think about when you hold something, it means that you have it, you possess it,
you're holding it, and Paul tells Timothy here to be really, I believe, as you look
at the text of Scripture, to have this perspective of being unwavering in our belief.
Holding faith.
He tells him that he's to charge some, that they teach no other doctrine, and we find
here that it's absolutely imperative that we are sound in faith.
Remember that Paul mentions in verse number 11 about the glorious gospel.
In verse number 10, he talks about the sound doctrine, and we said that verse number 10,
when he refers to sound doctrine, he's talking about that which is healthy, that which is
right, that which is sound.
We must be unwavering in our belief, and when we understand the truth of God's Word,
we must stand on the truth of God's Word.
Notice in Ephesians chapter 4, I keep going back to Ephesians throughout this message
today, because this is the place where Paul says that Timothy was left to minister.
And in Ephesians chapter number 4, I want you to notice about this truth of being sound
in faith, and notice what the Bible says.
In Ephesians 4 and verse number 11, the Bible says, and he gave some apostles and some prophets
and some evangelists and some pastors and teachers, and so what is the purpose that
God gave these to the church, it says in verse number 12, for the perfecting of the saints,
for the work of the ministry, for the edifying of the body of Christ, till we all come in
the unity of the faith, and of the knowledge of the Son of God, unto a perfect man, unto
the measure of the stature of the fullness of Christ.
But notice verse 14, that we henceforth be no more children, tossed to and fro, and carried
about with every wind of doctrine by the slight of men and cunning craftiness, whereby they
lie in wait to deceive.
You know, the battle that we're in, but we must be unwavering in our belief, why?
Because there are those that lie in wait to deceive.
They do it through the slight of hand, it says the slight of men, it talks about the
cunning craftiness, the witty use and beguiling, Paul talks about that in the book of Colossians,
be not beguiled, let no man beguile you.
And we find that in verse 14, it's a great picture, he says that we henceforth be no
more children, and obviously he's talking about that maturation process, the fact that
we come to spiritual maturity.
And notice what he says, that we be not tossed to and fro, and carried about with every wind
of doctrine.
You ever see a tree in a storm as it's tossed to and fro and it's just moving back and forth?
And there are some people that are just, they just kind of waver, they're just not settled,
they're not grounded, they're not sure, they're not unwavering as we see here.
And Paul says to Timothy, hold, holding faith.
Notice what it says in verse 15, but speaking the truth in love may grow up into him in
all things which is the head, even Christ.
We find that we're to be settled and grounded.
We understand this morning that we're to be unwavering in our belief.
You say, pastor, aren't we to be open-minded?
So often people say, oh, you're just too closed-minded, you're too narrow-minded.
You need to be more open-minded.
No, no, we have to just know the Bible.
And when we can establish the truth of God's Word, when we can understand the teaching
that God has given to us, and we study the Scriptures, and we come to the conclusion
that God has given us in His Word, we must be unwavering in our belief.
We must not be tossed to and fro with every wind and doctrine.
We must not be open to, let's have open discussion, you know, what do you think about this?
And what do you believe about that?
And let's just have other people from other denominations and other groups come in and,
no, no, no, we must be students of this Word, and we must be unwavering in faith.
He says this back in 1 Timothy 1, notice in verse 6, he said that some have swerved.
Some have swerved.
And what do they do?
They turned aside into vain jangling, and said that that was useless talk.
They had a desire to teach the Word, but they weren't qualified to teach the Word, to teach
the law, and they did not have the qualification.
They did not understand what they said.
And we find that there were some that had swerved, but then notice as we look in our
text of Scripture this morning, notice what some, not only some have swerved according
to verse number 6, but notice in verse 19, he says, holding faith in a good conscience,
which some having put away concerning faith.
Now that word put away literally carries with it the idea of to thrust something, really
to throw it away.
They've put it away.
Now think about the truth that Paul is communicating to Timothy.
He's saying, Timothy, you need to war a good warfare.
Timothy, I've left you there so that you could charge some, they would teach no other
doctrine.
Timothy, yes, there are some that have swerved and they've turned to vain jangling.
Timothy, it's a battle.
There are some that have put away concerning the faith.
They have thrust it away.
But Timothy, be unwavering in your belief.
Be settled and grounded.
You know it's not popular today to say that Jesus is the only way to heaven.
You understand that, right?
You know that that's not popular today.
We can be called all sorts of words and names and things because we say that Jesus is the
only way.
But the reality is that my Bible says that Jesus said, I am the way, the truth and the
life.
No man, that means there's no exceptions, cometh unto the Father, but by me.
Amen?
I don't need to be open-minded about that.
I don't need to take a perspective that, well, as long as you're sincere in what you believe.
No, no, no.
Jesus said, I am the way.
He didn't say, I am a way.
He said, I am the way.
By the way, that gives us great responsibility to go forth and preach the gospel of Jesus
Christ because how can they hear?
How are they going to believe in Him of whom they've not heard?
How shall they hear without a preacher?
Amen?
We're to be unwavering in our belief.
Notice these that have put away, they've thrust away concerning faith according to verse 19.
Notice what the Bible says, have made shipwreck.
That's kind of an interesting picture that Paul paints here with regard, and he's going
to name two people by name in verse 20, we'll get to it in just a moment.
But I want you to think about the result of having put away, of thrusting away this sound,
this correct teaching, this, as he says in verse number 10, sound doctrine, the truth
that God has given that they teach no other doctrine, that they are just swerving and
thrusting away, turning away, putting away.
He says that they've made shipwreck.
Now think about being shipwrecked.
It's probably, at this particular time in history, the worst thing that could happen
to someone as far as travel is concerned, to be shipwrecked.
And what Paul is saying is that's what they've done with their life.
You ever hear somebody say that somebody's made shipwreck of their life?
And here we find that Paul says because they have put away, literally thrusting away faith,
the teaching, the belief that they, this picture, this painting, the result, that they've
made shipwreck.
He names two people in verse number 20, of whom is Hymenaeus and Alexander.
Now we find that in 2 Timothy 2, in verse 17 and 18, Paul gives further insight with
regard to Hymenaeus with regard to what his false teaching was and what was going on.
In verse 17 of 2 Timothy 2, it says, And the word will eat as doth a canker, of whom is
Hymenaeus and Philetus, who concerning the truth have erred.
Were they saying that the resurrection has passed already, and notice, and overthrow
the faith of some?
I said this a couple of weeks ago.
It's amazing how false teachers can get such a following.
It's amazing how so many people can believe the lies.
And it says that they've overthrown the faith of some.
So Paul mentions in the second letter about this character Hymenaeus.
Now some think that Alexander might be Alexander the coppersmith that's mentioned at the end
of chapter number 4 there in 2 Timothy.
Whether that's the truth or not, he refers to him as Alexander the coppersmith in the
second letter.
Whether this is the same character or not, we do not know for certainty.
The name is actually a pretty popular name, so it could have been a different individual.
But what we know is that these have thrust away, they've put away concerning faith.
And so what happens?
Well as we look in verse number 20, a verse of Scripture that some have really struggled
with, notice what Paul says at the end, whom I have delivered unto Satan, that they may
learn not to blaspheme.
Now I believe as you look at this portion of Scripture that what Paul is dealing with
is that of church discipline, and really the last step of church discipline.
When you look through the process of church discipline, we find that the process is that
as you go to the individual, that if there is repentance, there's to be restoration.
I made the statement last week that the goal on Wednesday evening, warn them that are unruly,
was our text on Wednesday evening, that the goal of church discipline is not excommunication.
The goal of church discipline is restoration.
And we find though that there are some, when you go through the process of church discipline,
that they do not respond.
So what's the end result?
You put them out of the church.
What's the end result of church discipline?
The last step of church discipline.
And I believe that's what Paul is speaking of here, this last step of church discipline
whereby these individuals were put out of the church.
Guess what that means?
By the way, whose domain and dominion is the world?
It's Satan's.
The God of this world, 2 Corinthians, right, hath blinded the minds of them which believe
not.
And so notice what he says, that I've delivered them unto Satan, that they may learn not to
blaspheme.
So they were blasphemous, and we find that when he says learn, that idea of learning
is to learn by discipline.
Did you ever say to a child, did you learn your lesson?
You disciplined them so that they would learn, and the goal is that there would be correction
of behavior.
And Paul says that they might learn not to blaspheme.
Note, hold your place here and turn over to Matthew chapter 18 quickly this morning as
we look at this truth with regard to church discipline and understanding the teaching
that Jesus gave with regard to church discipline.
In chapter number 18 of the Gospel of Matthew, in verse 15, down through verse number 17,
we see three steps of church discipline.
The Bible says in verse 15, moreover if thy brother shall trespass against thee, go and
tell him his fault between thee and him alone.
If he shall hear thee, thou hast gained thy brother.
But if he will not hear thee, then take with thee one or two more, then in the mouth of
two or three witnesses every word may be established.
And if he shall neglect to hear them, tell it unto the church.
But if he neglect to hear the church, let him be unto thee as an heathen man and a publican.
That's the last step of church discipline, put him out of the church.
With regard to these individuals that are mentioned, you could jot down maybe 1 Corinthians
5 in verse 5, we're not going to take the time to go there this morning, but if you
look there, Paul deals with that as well at the church in Corinth in the last step of
church discipline with that offender that is mentioned in 1 Corinthians 5, you might
want to jot it down and look there later on your own.
But here as we come back to 1 Timothy chapter number 1, when he's speaking about these two
individuals, notice what they're doing, they're teaching false doctrine and they are influencing
some.
So Paul says, they need to be dealt with.
It seems as if as we look here, Paul tells Timothy, I've delivered them, we've gone through
the process, they're out.
Why?
Because we can't leave them in to affect the body, they need to be dealt with.
I had a situation years ago here, and the person hasn't been in church here for years,
in fact they're with the Lord now, but they were here and they were trying to peddle some
false teaching.
You know how they were trying to do it?
They were trying to hand out books to people.
And I got aware of it, and so I went and I told that individual, I said, listen, I said,
you're not permitted to pass out any of those books here.
If there's anything you want to distribute here, you've got to give it to me first, and
if I approve of it, I can let you pass it out.
And they looked at me and they said, who do you think you are?
I said, well, honestly, I don't think I'm anyone, but God put me here as the pastor
and I have a responsibility.
And what you're distributing is not how we believe, and if you want to go somewhere else
and peddle that stuff, that's up to you, but you're not going to peddle it here.
And then he invoked God's judgment on me, but that's okay.
But he never passed it out to my knowledge ever again.
Why?
Because we have a responsibility to be unwavering in our belief.
If God said it, that settles it, amen?
It's not meaning that we're trying to be contradictory just to be contradictory.
It's not that we're trying to be ugly to be ugly to be, no, no, no, we just got to believe
what God said.
We're going to believe what God said.
Not only must we understand the battle, not only must we be unwavering in our belief,
but number three this morning, if we're going to war a good warfare, we must be upright
in our behavior.
We must be upright in our behavior.
Notice what Paul says in 1 Timothy 1, in verse number 19, he says, holding faith.
That's unwavering in your belief, but he says this, and a good conscience.
Being upright in our behavior, Paul said some things with regard to his conscience personally.
He makes this statement, Acts 23, as he's speaking about his ministry and his life.
And in Acts 23, in verse number one, he says this, he says, and Paul earnestly beholding
the counsel said, men and brethren, I have lived in all good conscience before God until
this day.
He says in chapter 24, in verse number 16, when he's standing there before Felix at this
point, he says, and herein do I exercise myself to always, to have always a conscience void
of offense toward God and toward men.
And now Paul says to Timothy, holding faith and a good conscience.
We see that Paul makes those statements of his own self and his own ministry and his
own life in Acts 23 and Acts 24.
We find that Paul gives this charge with regard to upright behavior.
He says here in 1 Timothy 1, in verse 19, a good conscience.
It's interesting, in chapter 3, in verse number 9, he speaks about a pure conscience.
So a good and a pure conscience, in my understanding of Scripture, is the result of righteous living.
It's the result of righteous living.
Why does Paul say I exercise myself to have always a conscience void of offense before
God and before men?
It's that idea of righteous living that we're to be upright in our behavior that we could
have, as Paul says, holding faith and a good conscience.
It's the opposite of having a seared conscience.
In 1 Timothy 4, in verse number 2, Paul speaks about those false teachers, that they're speaking
lies and hypocrisy, having their conscience seared with a hot iron.
Paul says this in Titus, chapter number 1, in verse number 15, that there were some that
had a defiled conscience.
It says, unto the pure all things are pure, but unto them that are defiled and unbelieving
is nothing pure, but even their mind and conscience is defiled.
We find here this morning that Paul says to Timothy, we're a good warfare.
It's a battle.
Be unwavering in your belief, but Timothy, be upright in your behavior.
Live a life that's pure, righteous living.
This morning there are many in our society today that have sought to criticize righteous
living.
No one's allowed to have fun anymore, I don't know.
Seeking to please God.
Seeking to live in a manner by which God is honored and glorified.
We find here that as we consider the truth of this good conscience that is spoken of
in verse 19, that it is possible for you, it's possible for me, just as it was possible
for Timothy, to hold faith, to be unwavering in our belief, but also to have a good conscience,
to be upright in our behavior.
I would say that it's absolutely essential that we understand that we, as the ministers
of God, as those that are called of the Lord to carry His truth, to be His representatives,
that we ought to be upright in our behavior.
It doesn't mean that we're going to ever be perfect, to have no sin in our lives, but
the reality is that we must be living in such a way that we're seeking to please, honor,
and glorify our God.
That we'd understand that as Peter says, as he's referring back to even the truth of the
book of Leviticus, where God says to His people, be holy, for I am holy, and Peter
says that we're to be holy in all manner of conversation, that in your life and in my
life that we're to live righteously, that we're to live godly.
Notice what the Bible says in Titus chapter number 2.
In Titus chapter number 2, now understand today that this thought, this teaching of
grace has been really twisted up, and it's not just today because we find that Jude speaks
about those that would just seek to be false teachers, and they were denying the truth
of God's Word, and Jude is writing to get them to earnestly contend for the faith, but
he says that they've turned the grace of our God into lasciviousness, unbridled lust, just
do what you want to do.
Today there's a term antinomianism, right?
You might never have heard of that term, and if you have people today that use this terminology,
oh, you can just do whatever you want to do, you're under grace.
That's foreign to God's Word.
That is foreign to God's Word.
God says that we're not to use our liberty as an occasion of the flesh in the book of
Galatians.
Here in Titus chapter number 2, notice what the Bible says about the grace of God.
In verse number 11 it says, for the grace of God that bringeth salvation, notice, hath
appeared to how many men?
To all men.
But notice what that grace teaches us.
It tells us in the next verse.
We don't have to just kind of try to figure it out on our own.
It says, teaching us that denying ungodliness and worldly lust, we should live how?
Soberly, righteously, and godly in this present world.
Why?
Because Jesus is coming, looking, notice verse 13, for that blessed hope and the glorious
appearing of the great God and our Savior, Jesus Christ.
John says this in 1 John, that whoever has this hope in him, that he purifies himself
even as he is pure.
What is the hope?
That Jesus is coming again.
The end of 1 John chapter 3 and the beginning of chapter number 4 deals with that truth.
And this morning, I keep saying this evening, I'm not sure why, but this morning as we
look at this text of scripture and we see that Paul is giving this charge, we must be
upright in our behavior, this good conscience.
You ever find somebody, we might use the phrase that they have a guilty conscience, you ever
have somebody like that?
I remember talking to some folks that are in law enforcement and every time they'd get
behind somebody that had some guilt, they'd be doing weird things and kind of just telling
everybody else that they're guilty by their behavior, by the things that they start doing,
getting antsy and all that kind of stuff.
Listen, we can have a good conscience, a pure conscience, but it's the result of righteous
living.
It's the result of righteous living.
I ask this question, does my behavior align with the principles contained within this
book?
Does my behavior, does your behavior align with the principles that we find in God's
Word?
God speaks much to His people in the Old Testament.
We find too in the New Testament, there's much instruction given to us with regard to
godly living, but it's amazing as you look at the Old Testament and consider as God is
giving His moral law to His people and explaining to them the importance of their behavior and
their living and to be holy.
He says to them that you're not to behave like you saw there in Egypt, you're not to
behave like you'll see of the peoples of the land, no, you're to behave, you're to live
according to my precepts, according to my principles.
I've said this from the pulpit before, the book of Exodus reveals to us how God gets
His people out of Egypt.
The book of Leviticus reveals to us how God gets Egypt out of His people.
All of us understand the importance of righteous living.
I believe that this morning.
We understand the importance.
Sometimes it's the practice.
And here this morning we find that I have to believe what's right, but I also have to
live right.
I have to believe right and I have to live right.
And this morning, if we're going to war a good warfare, if Timothy is going to war a
good warfare, we have to understand it's a battle, it is a battle.
We are soldiers of the cross, onward, forward, we sing the song, we're soldiers of the cross.
But there are those that are the enemies of the cross and we're engaged in spiritual warfare,
we are fighting not against flesh and blood, but against spiritual wickedness in high places.
Number two, we must be unwavering in our belief.
Be settled and grounded.
Know what you believe and why you believe it.
Be able to defend it biblically.
Why do you believe that?
Because my pastor said it.
Well, that's what our church believes.
No, no, no.
It has to go far deeper than that.
You have to be able to have verses of Scripture.
You've got to be able to turn to God's Word and say, here's why I believe that, unwavering.
And that's the only reason that we would be unwavering in our belief is because it's founded
on God's Word and God alone is true.
That's why we're to be unwavering in our belief, but we must be upright in our behavior, that
we would live, that we would walk as children of the light, that we would live lives that
are pleasing to God, that we would be that vessel that's meat for the master's use.
He's given us sound doctrine, but we're to live righteously as we deliver that message
to a lost and dying world.
So often, I'm sure you've heard it just as I have, people will attack and criticize Christians
and churches, and one of the attacks that they make is this, they're full of hypocrites.
You ever heard somebody say that?
I've heard it so many times.
The reality is that there are times in our lives that we give occasion to the enemy,
and we may live hypocritical lives.
Just reading this morning in 2 Samuel, how David and his behavior gave occasion to the
enemy to speak against God.
Listen, we must be upright in our behavior.
We got to believe right, but we got to live right.
Let's pray together.
Father, we love You.
We thank You for loving us.
We thank You for the privilege of having Your Word.
God, we've been enlisted in a fight.
Lord, we're thankful that You've given us Your Word, and in Your Word, You have revealed
to us that we're engaged in a spiritual battle.
God, we thank You that we can have victory through our Lord Jesus Christ.
I pray that You'd help us to have an understanding of Your Word, to be settled and grounded,
to be unwavering in our belief, Lord, that we'd know why we believe what we believe,
that we'd be ready to give an answer.
I pray, Father, that You'd help us to be upright in our behavior.
Lord, help us to live in a manner which is pleasing to Thee.
Help us to be holy in all manner of conversation.
I pray, Lord, that You would help us to be able to war a good warfare.
Thank You for the instruction.
Thank You for the equipping.
I pray, Lord, that You'd work in hearts and lives.
Maybe this morning one is not saved, or they need to trust Christ as their Savior this
morning.
Maybe, God, there's some that some way through the message, You've just touched on an area
of their lives.
God, I pray that You'd help us to be responsive.
Just as we've been ready to receive, that we'd be ready to respond, that we'd be obedient,
that we'd be doers of the Word and not hearers only.
Help us, Lord, to be good soldiers of Jesus Christ.
I pray that You'd move and work in the moment of invitation, that through all that's said
and done, that You alone would be glorified.
It's in Christ's name we pray.